README.md, before:

# AMLI Project - Bitcoin Price Prediction

 > This is a final project from Google Applied Machine Learning Intensive (AMLI) in summer 2019. 

 > Using machine learning (ML) techniques and given the Bitcoin historical data and sentiment analysis of relevant Reddit and Twitter posts, the model could predict the trend and the exact price of Bitcoin.

 > Keywords: applied machine learning, Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, price prediction, RNN, sentiment analysis

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Model Inputs](#model-inputs)
- [Model](#model)
- [Results](#results)
- [Future Steps](#future-steps)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)
- [References](#references)

## Getting Started

Code is intended to work with Python 3.6.x and Jupyter Notebook, or Google Colaboratory.

### Prerequisites
You need to download the packages needed for the code. Here is the way to download it:
```
pip install <package>
```

### Structures
There are four folders: `bitcoin`, `model`, `reddit`, and `twitter`. In each folder, the structure is as follow:

    ├── folder name                   
    |   ├── bin         # script files (ended with .py)
    |   ├── data             # dataset (ended with .csv or .xlsx)
    |   └── nb               # Jupyter Notebook (ended iwth .ipynb)

## Model Inputs
The model inputs come from three sources: Bitcoin historical data, sentiment analysis of Tweets, and sentiment analysis of Reddit posts.

### Bitcoin Historical Data
- **Download latest historical data**
To get the latest data for Bitcoin price and other features, you could go to [Bitcoin Core Charts](https://charts.bitcoin.com/btc/) and manually download the 39 files. Here is how to download them:
![Recordit GIF](http://g.recordit.co/61NpgDWg5I.gif)

An alternative way would be automating the web browser and download them. To do this, you need Selenium and corresponding web browser. The project uses Firefox version 40.0.3.
After successfully downloading them, you can run `bitcoin_data.py` in `bitcoin/bin`. It will download 39 files about Bitcoin price to `bitcoin/data/bitcoin_data`.

- **Use existing dataset**
In the `bitcoin/data/bitcoin_data` folder, there are 39 files ended with `.csv`. The latest data is July 29, 2019.

- **Merge data into one file**
Run `Merge_Data.ipynb` in `bitcoin/nb`, and it will generate a excel file called `bitcoin_merged.xlsx` in  `bitcoin/data`.

- Optional
If you are also interested in feeding the historical price of Litecoin or Ethereum to the model, you can run the corresponding code blocks in `Merge_Data.ipynb` and get `litecoin_data.csv` and `ethereum_data.csv` .

### Twitter
- **GetOldTweets3** 
This is an improvement fork of another project GetOldTweets. [GetOldTweets](https://github.com/Jefferson-Henrique/GetOldTweets-python) is a tweet scraping package that bypasses Twitter's offical API's general limitations especially when it comes to time constraints. [GetOldTweets3](https://pypi.org/project/GetOldTweets3/) fixes minor known issues with the original module, provides additional features such as number of retweets, and outputs the data as a csv more cleanly.

- **Installation**
To get historical Twitter data, you simply have to install the package through your local machine's command line: `pip install GetOldTweets3`

- **Export Data**
GetOldTweets3 exports tweets to a specified csv file called `output_got.csv` by default.

- **Query Examples**    
Example 1 - Get tweets by query search:  
`GetOldTweets3 --querysearch "europe refugees" --maxtweets 10`  

Example 2 - Get the last 10 top tweets by username:  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "barackobama" --toptweets --maxtweets 10`  

Example 3 - Get tweets by the username and bound dates (until date is not included):  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "barackobama" --since 2015-09-10 --until 2015-09-12 --maxtweets 10`  

Example 4 - Get tweets by several usernames:  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "BarackObama,AngelaMerkeICDU" --usernames-from-file userlist.txt --maxtweets 10`  

Example 5 - Get tweets by language:  
`GetOldTweets3 --querysearch "bitcoin" --lang cn --maxtweets 10`  

See [GetOldTweets3](https://pypi.org/project/GetOldTweets3/) for additional Twitter criteria.

### Reddit
### Sentiment Analysis

## Model
### Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) 
Open `Bitcoin_Price_Prediction.ipynb` in `model/nb` and follow the instructions to run the model.

### Echo State Network (ESN)
ESN is a type of RNN, and it is well adapted for handling chaotic time series. It has a sparsely connected hidden layer (with typically 1% connectivity). The connectivity and weights of hidden [neurons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_neuron "Artificial neuron") are fixed and randomly assigned. The weights of output neurons can be learned so that the network can (re)produce specific temporal patterns. (Source: [WIkipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Echo_state_network))

Open `Echo_State_Network.ipynb` in `model/nb` and follow the instructions to run the model.
## Results
### RNN model
|Feature Set|Precision                        |Recall |Accuracy                        |
|----------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------|
|first|1           |2          |3
|second          |4      |5          |6
|third          |7      |8          |9

### ESN model
In the `Echo_State_Network.ipynb` notebook, we tried several different combinations of the parameters. Using the scaled Bitcoin price data, an optimal set of `reservoir = 500`, `sparsity = 0.2`, `radius = 1.5`, and `noise = 0.001` gives the MSE around `0.1547`.

## Future Steps
### More Data Scraping  
Our time limitations posed the greatest constraint, as the most crucial part of this idea is to get as much relevant data related to cryptocurrency and Bitcoin as possible. This is needed for our model to be trained on a holistic and realistic depiction of what posts, articles, etc. people are reacting to in order to accurately gauge public sentiment. If we had more time and perhaps more people, we could perform a wider and deeper search for this data to improve our model.  
### Financial Sentiment Analyzer
We attempted to search for a better sentiment analyzer since TextBlob’s performance was less than ideal. We wanted to find one that specifically dealt with financial text, but were unable to find such a tool. This is probably because an actual robust financial text sentiment analyzer would likely be privatized by FinTech organizations due to its potentially powerful capabilities. Going forward, an additional component of this project could be training our own financial text sentiment analyzer and furthering the open source agenda of our application. 

## Authors
* **[Anthony Burre](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-burre-ab44a1123/)**
* **[Courtney Luk](https://www.linkedin.com/in/courtneyluk/)**
* **[Lu Yu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yu24l/)**
* **[Max Matuska](https://www.linkedin.com/in/max-matuska-4b736014a/)**

## Acknowledgments

* We would like to express our special thanks of gratitude to the instructors team from AMLI who provided much help and support for this project, as well as Sidnie and Liza who gave us this great opportunity.

## References
* [Predicting Stock Prices with Echo State Networks](https://towardsdatascience.com/predicting-stock-prices-with-echo-state-networks-f910809d23d4)
* [Predicting Cryptocurrency Prices with Machine Learning](https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor/predicting-cryptocurrency-prices-with-machine-learning-1b5a711d3937)

Commit message:

adding sections about scraping reddit

README.md, after:

# AMLI Project - Bitcoin Price Prediction

 > This is a final project from Google Applied Machine Learning Intensive (AMLI) in summer 2019. 

 > Using machine learning (ML) techniques and given the Bitcoin historical data and sentiment analysis of relevant Reddit and Twitter posts, the model could predict the trend and the exact price of Bitcoin.

 > Keywords: applied machine learning, Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, price prediction, RNN, sentiment analysis

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Model Inputs](#model-inputs)
- [Model](#model)
- [Results](#results)
- [Future Steps](#future-steps)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)
- [References](#references)

## Getting Started

Code is intended to work with Python 3.6.x and Jupyter Notebook, or Google Colaboratory.

### Prerequisites
You need to download the packages needed for the code. Here is the way to download it:
```
pip install <package>
```

### Structures
There are four folders: `bitcoin`, `model`, `reddit`, and `twitter`. In each folder, the structure is as follow:

    ├── folder name                   
    |   ├── bin         # script files (ended with .py)
    |   ├── data             # dataset (ended with .csv or .xlsx)
    |   └── nb               # Jupyter Notebook (ended iwth .ipynb)

## Model Inputs
The model inputs come from three sources: Bitcoin historical data, sentiment analysis of Tweets, and sentiment analysis of Reddit posts.

### Bitcoin Historical Data
- **Download latest historical data**
To get the latest data for Bitcoin price and other features, you could go to [Bitcoin Core Charts](https://charts.bitcoin.com/btc/) and manually download the 39 files. Here is how to download them:
![Recordit GIF](http://g.recordit.co/61NpgDWg5I.gif)

An alternative way would be automating the web browser and download them. To do this, you need Selenium and corresponding web browser. The project uses Firefox version 40.0.3.
After successfully downloading them, you can run `bitcoin_data.py` in `bitcoin/bin`. It will download 39 files about Bitcoin price to `bitcoin/data/bitcoin_data`.

- **Use existing dataset**
In the `bitcoin/data/bitcoin_data` folder, there are 39 files ended with `.csv`. The latest data is July 29, 2019.

- **Merge data into one file**
Run `Merge_Data.ipynb` in `bitcoin/nb`, and it will generate a excel file called `bitcoin_merged.xlsx` in  `bitcoin/data`.

- Optional
If you are also interested in feeding the historical price of Litecoin or Ethereum to the model, you can run the corresponding code blocks in `Merge_Data.ipynb` and get `litecoin_data.csv` and `ethereum_data.csv` .

### Twitter
- **GetOldTweets3** 
This is an improvement fork of another project GetOldTweets. [GetOldTweets](https://github.com/Jefferson-Henrique/GetOldTweets-python) is a tweet scraping package that bypasses Twitter's offical API's general limitations especially when it comes to time constraints. [GetOldTweets3](https://pypi.org/project/GetOldTweets3/) fixes minor known issues with the original module, provides additional features such as number of retweets, and outputs the data as a csv more cleanly.

- **Installation**
To get historical Twitter data, you simply have to install the package through your local machine's command line: `pip install GetOldTweets3`

- **Export Data**
GetOldTweets3 exports tweets to a specified csv file called `output_got.csv` by default.

- **Query Examples**    
Example 1 - Get tweets by query search:  
`GetOldTweets3 --querysearch "europe refugees" --maxtweets 10`  

Example 2 - Get the last 10 top tweets by username:  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "barackobama" --toptweets --maxtweets 10`  

Example 3 - Get tweets by the username and bound dates (until date is not included):  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "barackobama" --since 2015-09-10 --until 2015-09-12 --maxtweets 10`  

Example 4 - Get tweets by several usernames:  
`GetOldTweets3 --username "BarackObama,AngelaMerkeICDU" --usernames-from-file userlist.txt --maxtweets 10`  

Example 5 - Get tweets by language:  
`GetOldTweets3 --querysearch "bitcoin" --lang cn --maxtweets 10`  

See [GetOldTweets3](https://pypi.org/project/GetOldTweets3/) for additional Twitter criteria.

### Reddit
- **scrape_reddit**
This script utilizes the pushshift.io API to acquire reddit submissions mentioning the term 'cryptocurrency' between specified time periods. Because this API returns a maximum of 500 results for any query, one must step back through time in small increments in order not to miss any posts. To speed this process up, the script uses a dynamic time stepping scheme, adapting the time interval queried as needed. We found that an interval initialized at 24 hours and a divisor of 2 works decently fast. One should set the iterations variable according to the desired start date of scraping. Sometimes the api returns an error instead of a json file, and the urls that are not successfully processed are logged in the 'error_log' variable. This was an uncommon occurance.

The output of this script is a very large file named `reddit.csv`.

- **analyze_reddit_sentiment**
This script takes the `reddit.csv` file as input, and performs sentiment analysis on both title and body fields, creating new columns for body and title polarity and subjectivity values. It then outputs this information as `reddit_sent.csv`.

- **aggregate_reddit_daily**
This script takes as input the `reddit_sent.csv` file and generates a vector aggregating the total sentiment of reddit for each day by taking into account number of posts, polarity/subjectivity of each post, score of each post, and number of comments on each post. The output of this script is `reddit_dailyscores.csv`.

- **normalize_reddit**
This script takes the `reddit_dailyscores.csv` file as input, and normalizes its values using a MinMaxScaler to map them all to values between zero and one. It then spreads out these values with the np.power function, as they tend to be skewed right significantly. It generates the `reddit_daily_normalized.csv` file as output. 

### News
- **see above**
We used the reddit api to acquire news headlines mentioning Bitcoin, as news specific apis either did not reach far enough back in time or did not return a comprehensive set of articles. In the reddit/nb/news directory are scripts mirroring the reddit scripts above, but which deal with our news data. 
### Sentiment Analysis

## Model
### Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) 
Open `Bitcoin_Price_Prediction.ipynb` in `model/nb` and follow the instructions to run the model.

### Echo State Network (ESN)
ESN is a type of RNN, and it is well adapted for handling chaotic time series. It has a sparsely connected hidden layer (with typically 1% connectivity). The connectivity and weights of hidden [neurons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_neuron "Artificial neuron") are fixed and randomly assigned. The weights of output neurons can be learned so that the network can (re)produce specific temporal patterns. (Source: [WIkipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Echo_state_network))

Open `Echo_State_Network.ipynb` in `model/nb` and follow the instructions to run the model.
## Results
### RNN model
|Feature Set|Precision                        |Recall |Accuracy                        |
|----------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------|
|first|1           |2          |3
|second          |4      |5          |6
|third          |7      |8          |9

### ESN model
In the `Echo_State_Network.ipynb` notebook, we tried several different combinations of the parameters. Using the scaled Bitcoin price data, an optimal set of `reservoir = 500`, `sparsity = 0.2`, `radius = 1.5`, and `noise = 0.001` gives the MSE around `0.1547`.

## Future Steps
### More Data Scraping  
Our time limitations posed the greatest constraint, as the most crucial part of this idea is to get as much relevant data related to cryptocurrency and Bitcoin as possible. This is needed for our model to be trained on a holistic and realistic depiction of what posts, articles, etc. people are reacting to in order to accurately gauge public sentiment. If we had more time and perhaps more people, we could perform a wider and deeper search for this data to improve our model.  
### Financial Sentiment Analyzer
We attempted to search for a better sentiment analyzer since TextBlob’s performance was less than ideal. We wanted to find one that specifically dealt with financial text, but were unable to find such a tool. This is probably because an actual robust financial text sentiment analyzer would likely be privatized by FinTech organizations due to its potentially powerful capabilities. Going forward, an additional component of this project could be training our own financial text sentiment analyzer and furthering the open source agenda of our application. 

## Authors
* **[Anthony Burre](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-burre-ab44a1123/)**
* **[Courtney Luk](https://www.linkedin.com/in/courtneyluk/)**
* **[Lu Yu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yu24l/)**
* **[Max Matuska](https://www.linkedin.com/in/max-matuska-4b736014a/)**

## Acknowledgments

* We would like to express our special thanks of gratitude to the instructors team from AMLI who provided much help and support for this project, as well as Sidnie and Liza who gave us this great opportunity.

## References
* [Predicting Stock Prices with Echo State Networks](https://towardsdatascience.com/predicting-stock-prices-with-echo-state-networks-f910809d23d4)
* [Predicting Cryptocurrency Prices with Machine Learning](https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor/predicting-cryptocurrency-prices-with-machine-learning-1b5a711d3937)
